ok so now we can write the code for the
action handler for our contact dialogue
fxml now if you recall we did
something similar in the to do list
application so the code i'm about to
show you should be familiar now we want
the dialogue to be modal and tied to the
main window of the application so we
need to assign a fx id to the border
pane to achieve that
let's get back to our main dot FXML and
for the border pane we need to add an ID...
...
....and then go back to our
controller class again this is the
controller for the main dot FXML we first
need to add a field...
....
...
alright so now that we've done that we
can add the code for the action handler
let's go ahead and do that in here
in the show add contact dialogue going
to start with a dialog...
...
...we're getting this
error here a little bit of a tricky one
it's actually got to do with the
language level so i go into my module
settings going to project this should
actually be set to
jdk 8 if I do that the errors disappears
so we've got so far lets actually now
add the buttons for our dialogue so it's
going to be dialogue dot get dialogue
...
...so let's go
through what we just added here so i
started by creating a dialogue instance
and assigning the main window as its
parent and I assigned the parent on line
twenty and we're getting that parent
from the border pane and then set the
dialogue title and I've then loaded the
fxml and set the dialogues content to
what we've defined in the fxml file the
contact contact dialogue .fxml and
then i added the ok and can cancel buttons
and then we actually open the dialog
on line 36 and added the if statement
will check when the user presses ok or
cancel if they pressed ok then we want
to process the information they're
provided and add the new contact to our
contacts list before we do that let's
actually just run the application just
to make sure that this part of the code
work
ok we got our menu up here and click
on the menu click on ADD and there's our
little while dialogue pane that's popped
up
so obviously that's working we can see
the fields that are in the dialog and
click on cancel to close it down so
that's good we can continue on
alright so what what do we actually want
to do with the information that the user
provides in that dialogue box we want
actually create an instance of the
contact class and add that to the
contacts list now because we set things
up to use data binding that's all we
should have to do in other words we
don't have to explicitly change the UI
at all but this raises the question
of when we want to create an instance of
contact data class
now we haven't actually created that
instance yet now we could do it in main
dot java as part of the javafx
application lifecycle but since this is
a small application and everything the
user will want to do can be accessed
from the main window i think it makes
sense for the controller to create the
contact data instance let's do that in
the initialize method that the javafx
runtime calls when it creates the
controller so we go back to our
controller class and let's add the
initialize at the top and what we want
to do first is also add an instance of our
contact data class so...
...and then we want to
add out initialize method...
...
alright so we've got a contact data
instance at this point but we haven't
read in any save contacts but we'll do
that after we've created the instance so...
...right now
they're aren't any but that's ok we'll add
a few new entry shortly
the last thing we want to do in the
initialize method is to initialize the
tables data if you recall we added an fx
ID to the table view already and
we just needed to declare the field in
this controller so go ahead and do that
...
now that we've done that we can
initialize the table view in the
initialize method we do that below the
load contacts and we do that with contact
table....
....
alright so this is a good point in our
program to run again to make sure things
are still working...are still working
also the dialog box still work we are not
getting any errors or exceptions and
obviously there's no saved records so
we are seeing exactly as we saw the last
time we ran it i'm going to close that
down
alright so now we can work on handling a
new contact now we need the information
that's been entered by the user but at
the moment that isn't accessible from
the main controller now we have to get
the information using a content
controller and provide a way for the
main controller to get the new contact
so let's add a get new contact method to
the contact controller and it's going to
gather the information provided the
user create a new contact
instance and then return the instance to
the caller will go to our contract
controller class we need to enter fields
first...
...
...and now on to the
public method and that will be public
...
....
...so that code fairly
straightforward i had to declare all the
text fields then inside the get new
contact method we retrieve all the
information from the dialog box we
create a new contact return that to the
calling method now in a real-world
application you want to verify the input
at the very least you want to check that
the required fields weren't empty and would
probably require first name last name
and phone number and maybe have notes to
be optional and if we wanted to be
really user friendly we only enable
the ok button in the dialog when
the three required fields weren't empty but
we can also just check the contents here
but i won't actually add that now I will leave that as
an exercise for you to add validation
alright so let's go back to the main
control so when the users pressed ok will
get a reference to the contact
controller and call it get new contact
method and will then add the new contact
to the contacts list and the UI should
hopefully automatically update so
let's go back to our controller
and we come down here to this process of
show the dialog box also got this code
here if result is present and result.
get equals button okay that means
hopefully enter the data and click OK
meaning they want to save the field
save the
information so what we want to do there
is we do...
...
ok we are using the reference to fxml
loader that we defined here on line
36 and we know that we are getting the
getting access to the controller that's
associated with that fxml file and then
we're going to do contact...
...
...fairly
straightforward we've got access to our
contact controller so that we can access
this get new contact method to retrieve
the contents from the dialogue field create a
new contact record and ultimately
save that to our via contact data class
we're going to do one more step here
we're going to save the new contact to
the xml file by saving all the contacts
now this isn't the most efficient way to
do it so we could write the file when a
user closes the application or perhaps
set at periodic intervals but since
we're going to be dealing with a small
number of contacts will do this whenever
the user adds edits or delete a contact
that way they'll never lose any of their
work so we'll do this on the line below
that...
we are calling save contacts method after
they've added the new contact to the
list
alright so let's run this and see what
happens
alright so let's create a new entry
contacts...
....
...
click on OK and we can see the contact
appear in the table and just to confirm
this let's close the application and run
it again to see whether our contact is
loaded run again and success you can see
we now got our contact
successfully loaded from the xml file
when the application and restarts
so let's add three more contacts just
so theirs a few more there to work with
so...
....
...if you did make a
mistake and you wanted to change things
you could actually make a change to the
contacts . xml file because at the
moment we haven't got away  in the
application to editing these so if I close
down we can double-click this contacts to
XML which should be appearing in the
project pane and there's the entries
that are being added automatically by
the code in the contact data class
alright so I'm going to finish the video
here in the next video what we're going to do
is start looking at the code to edit
our contacts so see you in the next video